Software Test Plan (STP) for X-VPN

Date	Description	Version		QA Members
7/16	Initial		1.0		Ellen, Niel, Tom

1 INTRODUCTION

The purpose of this STP is to develop a test plan to assess all functionalities of a VPN app named X-VPN on Android.

2 TEST PLAN

2.1 Items Under Test
The app will consist of three basic area of testing. The first item of testing is whether a user can sign in or sign up. The second item accessed is whether a user can select a preferred location/server. The third item under test is whether the app's performance is as expected.

2.2 Scope
The scope of this document is to test X-VPN by each component, component integration, and full system functionality. However, due to the lack of available project time, this document will only include functional testing.

2.3 Test Devices and Environments 
Pixel 3 with Android version 6.0
Nexus 6 with Android version 10.0

2.4 Resource Materials
X-VPN Software Configuration Management Plan
X-VPN Software Requirements Specification 
X-VPN Software Quality Assurance Plan  
X-VPN Software Design document   

2.5 Test Categories

2.5.1 Unit Testing
This process involves the testing of particular system components. These components are isolated from other portions. 

2.5.2 Integration Testing
Integration testing procedures incorporate system components and how they perform together functionally between one another.

2.5.3 System Testing
This involves the complete integration of all system components and how they perform as a whole unit. 

2.5.4 Performance Testing 
The test checks if the app's performance meets business needs. It includes connection speed, download speed, network coverage, etc.

2.6 Acronyms
CI = Configuration item
SCMP = Software Configuration Management Plan
SPMP = Software Project Management Plan
SRS = Software Requirements Specification
SDD = Software Design Document
STP = Software Test Plan

3 TEST DESIGN

3.1 Functional Testing Part

3.1.1 New user can sign up
New user opens X-VPN, signs up with an email and password

3.1.2 User can sign in
User opens X-VPN, signs in with an email and password

3.1.3 User can sign out
User signs in and then signs out

3.1.4 User can subscribe a premium plan
User signs in and subscribes a premium plan

3.1.5 Premium user can select a location
User signs in and selects a location in the location list

3.1.6 Premium user can select the fastest server
User signs in and selects the fastest server shown

4 RISKS

4.1 Team members lack the required skill for testing a VPN app (plan training courses)

4.2 Wrong budget estimate and cost overruns (pay attention to project planning and constantly track and measure the progress)

5 QA TEST SCHEDULE
5.1 Functional tests will be tested by Ellen and Niel in week 3
5.2 Performance tests will be done by Tom in week 3